Creating the component index is actually quite simple.
I've created a simple Spring boot project here.
And inside of the pom.
xml, I have added the code for the spring-context-indexer.
You can see below here on lines 22 through 26,
it's just a simple dependency inside of our application.
The version of it is being included through the parent of our Spring boot
starter project you can see above here where we have 2.
0.
BUILD.
SNAPSHOT,
and it will pull down the most latest version of that
indexer to build inside of our application.
Now all I've done is created some fake components inside of here.
I wrote a little script to auto generate these,
and there's really nothing in here.
But I'm just doing it to show you how it will create
this index for us automatically.
So all 200 of these files look just like this with a different name.
Let me switch over to my command line,
and we'll run the indexer to see what this done on our code.
From the command line, all I need to do is run mvn clean compile package,
and you don't even have to run clean and compile.
I just like to to make sure that I've recreated
that index from scratch each time.
And it will go through and scan the entire source tree,
compile all of those files, and then build that index for us.
And if we navigate down into our target directory, there is a classes directory.
And since the package type of this application is jar,
there will just be this META-INF folder in here.
So if we cd into it, we can see that there is a spring.
components index file.
Let me open up this file in my text editor just so you can see
what the index looks like that's created.
Here is the index that it's created for us.
Notice that there is not a specific order that this gets created.
You can manipulate this if you want,
and you could create this by hand if you want.
All it's doing is going through and giving the fully
qualified package name and class name and then saying what
type of stereotype annotation it is.
So the first line in this is com.
example.
service.
gen1, which is the package, and it's the class Component1_8,
and it is a component stereotype.
And it goes clear down through all 200 of these components that we've created.
Since it was a jar, you would just package that up.
In fact, it's already done for us.
We could go explore the jar, but it's really not that interesting.
Now instead of our application having to go through and scan all of
those classes at runtime to build this index for us,
it just looks for this file, loads it in,
then it's done.
So it's a lot faster startup.
Like I said, the magic number seems to be around 200.
To really get good performance metrics on it though,
we should do this will real-world examples and not generated
classes because it doesn't really tell us a lot when the files themselves are just empty.